README.md, before:

# Music-Generation

## Steps to Clone, Install, `Run` the project

### Cloning the project locally

For HTTPS Method,

```sh
# Cloning the GitHub Repository
git clone https://github.com/AjayRahul1/Music-Generation.git

# Going into the directory
cd Music-Generation/
```

For SSH Method (Prefer this only if SSH Key was setup on your computer),

```sh
# Cloning the GitHub Repository
git clone git@github.com:AjayRahul1/Music-Generation.git

# Going into the directory
cd Music-Generation/
```

### Create a virtual environment with Python 3.10.x version

#### Python Version 3.10 Installation

- For Windows
  - Go to [Python Official Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/) Page (or) Click [here](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.10.11/python-3.10.11-amd64.exe) to download Python 3.10.11 installer directly.
  - Download 3.10.x version (x can be any number you find there)
  - Run the installer file.
  - Check tick the `Add python to PATH`.
  - During installation, make sure to select the option `Customize installation`.
  - Choose a unique installation directory for Python 3.10.x to avoid overwriting your existing Python version 3.x.x installation.
  - If Add Python to Path is `not` checked, open PATH Environment Variables and edit PATH variable by adding Python 3.10 version.

- For Linux (Open Terminal)
  - For Ubuntu
    - ```sudo apt install python3.10```
  - For Fedora
    - ```sudo dnf install python3.10```
- Verify Python Version
  - Windows
    - ```py -3.10 --version```
  - Linux
    - ```python3.10 --version```

#### Creation of Virtual Environment

- Windows
  - ```py -3.10 -m venv venv```
- Linux
  - ```python3.10 -m venv venv```
- Activating Virtual Environment
  - Windows
    - In Windows 10, Open Powershell (or) In Windows 11, Windows Terminal. 
    - ```venv\Scripts\Activate```
    - If you face any `error` with this command, it's because Microsoft disables Running Scripts by default.
    - To enable it temporarily, we run following command and try above command again.
      - ```powershell -ExecutionPolicy bypass```
  - Linux (In Terminal):
    - ```source venv/bin/activate```

#### Installing Requirements

- Check whether you can see (venv) in the terminal that gives the sign of successful virtual environment activation
- ```pip install -r req.txt```
- Take a moment of rest and comeback later while the requirements gets installed.

### Run the project on LocalHost

- ```uvicorn main:app --reload```
- Open [LocalHost](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) on your computer
- `Optional`: You can change the port number as per your wish.
- Now the website is at your hands!
- Go ahead and type your prompt to generate music accordingly.

Commit message:

Update README.md : Read Description
1. Given an introduction about the project and what it does.
2. Included points that people find as their use cases. It helps increasing the value of the project.
3. More detailed headings to Install and Run the project.
4. Yet to add Screenshots of the website in README.

README.md, after:

#  𝄞Music-Generation 

- Ever had a thought about composing music in your mind with the description you have?
- Well.. I think you have the solution now in front of you.

---

- Create your music that the world had never listened before. It's personalized and only yours.  
- You want a ringtone that is only yours? You have the power in your hands right here.
- You want a intro music for your Podcast? The keyboard is right in front you to ask.
- You want a clean outro for your YouTube Video? You are just a description of your music away.

---

> Try out the project by following the detailed steps provided in the [`Getting Started`](#-getting-started) section below.

## 📑 Getting Started

Steps to Clone, Install, `Run` the project

### Cloning the project locally

For HTTPS Method,

```sh
# Cloning the GitHub Repository
git clone https://github.com/AjayRahul1/Music-Generation.git

# Going into the directory
cd Music-Generation/
```

For SSH Method (Prefer this only if SSH Key was setup on your computer),

```sh
# Cloning the GitHub Repository
git clone git@github.com:AjayRahul1/Music-Generation.git

# Going into the directory
cd Music-Generation/
```

### Create a virtual environment with Python 3.10.x version

#### Python Version 3.10 Installation

- For Windows
  - Go to [Python Official Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/) Page (or) Click [here](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.10.11/python-3.10.11-amd64.exe) to download Python 3.10.11 installer directly.
  - Download 3.10.x version (x can be any number you find there)
  - Run the installer file.
  - Check tick the `Add python to PATH`.
  - During installation, make sure to select the option `Customize installation`.
  - Choose a unique installation directory for Python 3.10.x to avoid overwriting your existing Python version 3.x.x installation.
  - If Add Python to Path is `not` checked, open PATH Environment Variables and edit PATH variable by adding Python 3.10 version.

- For Linux (Open Terminal)
  - For Ubuntu
    - ```sudo apt install python3.10```
  - For Fedora
    - ```sudo dnf install python3.10```

#### Verify Python Version after Installation

  - Windows
    - ```py -3.10 --version```
  - Linux
    - ```python3.10 --version```

#### Creation of Virtual Environment

- Windows
  - ```py -3.10 -m venv venv```
- Linux
  - ```python3.10 -m venv venv```
- Activating Virtual Environment
  - Windows
    - In Windows 10, Open Powershell (or) In Windows 11, Windows Terminal. 
    - ```venv\Scripts\Activate```
    - If you face any `error` with this command, it's because Microsoft disables Running Scripts by default.
    - To enable it temporarily, we run following command and try above command again.
      - ```powershell -ExecutionPolicy bypass```
  - Linux (In Terminal):
    - ```source venv/bin/activate```

#### Installing Requirements

- Check whether you can see (venv) in the terminal that gives the sign of successful virtual environment activation
- ```pip install -r req.txt```
- Take a moment of rest and comeback later while the requirements gets installed.

### Run the project on LocalHost

- ```uvicorn main:app --reload```
- Open [Localhost](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) on your computer
- `Optional`: You can change the port number as per your wish.
- Now the website is at your hands!
- Go ahead and type your prompt to generate music accordingly.
